

# EC2

We will be creating a management server(EC-t2.medium). We will not be logging in to our master and worker nodes, we will manage everything from management server.


# DNS
We need a Domain name, which we have purchased, configured ns of domain with the Hosted zone ns that we created on AWS.

- I have purchased mine - cloudadhanik.xyz from godaddy, you can also do the same. Once purchased, you have to create a public Hosted zone in Route 53, with same domain name.  A hosted zone tells Route 53 how to respond to DNS queries for a domain such as example.com.

- Route 53 gives you a list of ns. This ns you have to update in your godaddy configuration, and set route 53 provided ns.

- Next, you can create records in the hosted zone to specify how you want Route 53 to route traffic for your domain.
- For subdomain we will select www
- Record type - Routes traffic to an IPv4 address and some AWS resources.

- Value - we provide public ip of our public EC2

Click on Create record

Record for cloudadhanik.xyz was successfully created.


# S3 Bucket

In next step, we are supposed to create a S3 Bucket, which will store kops state.
We will be creating bucket with our domain name itself - cloudadhanik.xyz(give bucket name this)


# Create an IAM role

In next step, we will be creating an IAM role and assign it to a EC2 instance.
We have created a kops role, which has access to EC2, and administrator policies.

Attach this iam role to EC2
Modify IAM role Info
Attach an IAM role to your instance.

# Generate SSH keys

login to your EC2 & RUN - ssh-keygen. these keys will be used by KOPS and applied to all nodes.

```
ubuntu@ip-172-31-89-133:~/.ssh$ ls -al
total 20
drwx------ 2 ubuntu ubuntu 4096 Oct 10 10:15 .
drwxr-x--- 4 ubuntu ubuntu 4096 Oct 10 10:15 ..
-rw------- 1 ubuntu ubuntu  391 Oct 10 10:08 authorized_keys
-rw------- 1 ubuntu ubuntu  419 Oct 10 10:15 id_ed25519
-rw-r--r-- 1 ubuntu ubuntu  105 Oct 10 10:15 id_ed25519.pub
ubuntu@ip-172-31-89-133:~/.ssh$ 

```


# Download Kops and Kubectl to usr/local/bin and change permissions.

go to cd /usr/local/bin

We go to kops official github page, we will go with version - v1.28.7
Select - kops-linux-amd64
Copy link address, paste in below wget command

Run  - sudo wget https://github.com/kubernetes/kops/releases/download/v1.28.7/kops-linux-amd64

We changed the name to kops - sudo mv kops-linux-amd64 kops
```
ls -ltr
total 185460
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 189909460 Jul 21 13:38 kops

```
Adjust the permissions - sudo chmod 777 kops

# Install KUBECTL (Download Kubectl and give permissions)

Check your EC2 Achitecture using - 
    uname -m

Ours is x86-64, we will use thsi command to install kubectl 

sudo curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/release/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl"

sudo chmod 777 kubectl

O/P
```
ubuntu@ip-172-31-89-133:/usr/local/bin$ ls -al
total 240536
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root      4096 Oct 10 10:31 .
drwxr-xr-x 10 root root      4096 Sep 27 08:36 ..
-rwxrwxrwx  1 root root 189909460 Jul 21 13:38 kops
-rwxrwxrwx  1 root root  56381592 Oct 10 10:31 kubectl
```

```
ubuntu@ip-172-31-89-133:~$ kops version
Client version: 1.28.7 (git-v1.28.7)
ubuntu@ip-172-31-89-133:~$ kubectl version
Client Version: v1.31.1
Kustomize Version: v5.4.2
The connection to the server localhost:8080 was refused - did you specify the right host or port?
ubuntu@ip-172-31-89-133:~$ 
```

# Create a bash file and add env variables to it.

Note - This has to be done on home dir. If you do inside /usr/local/bin, you will get error saving the file.

### edit .bashrc and add all the env variables 
```
vi .bashrc
export NAME=cloudadhanik.xyz
export KOPS_STATE_STORE=s3://cloudadhanik.xyz
export AWS_REGION=us-east-1
export CLUSTER_NAME=cloudadhanik.xyz
export EDITOR='/usr/bin/vi'
#export K8S_VERSION=1.6.4
```

To persist these env variables, type - `source .bashrc`
Type - `env` to see all the env variables.

Once this infra setup is complete, we can proceed to next section - Creating Cluster