

## Previously what we have done

Previously we have created secret, in which we passed base64 encoded values, and then passed these secrets as env variables in deployment.yaml

```
data:
  AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: <base64encoded-access-key>
  AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: <base64encoded-secret-access-key>
```

```
        env:
          - name: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID
            valueFrom:
              secretKeyRef:
                name: aws-access-keys # refrenced from secrets.yaml
                key: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID

```
## Filemount

In Kubernetes, file mounts, also known as volume mounts, are a way to provide persistent storage for containers and manage configuration data.

- Persistent storage - Volume mounts allow data to be shared between containers and remain even if a pod is rescheduled or moved. 
- Configuration data - Volume mounts, especially when combined with ConfigMaps, can be used to manage configuration data.

## Things to note

1. Here are some things to keep in mind about volume mounts: You can't create a volume without mounting it, or mount a volume that hasn't been created.

2. The name of the volume to be mounted in the container must match the name of the volume.
3. The volume outlives the containers in a Pod and can be used by any number of containers within that Pod. 

## Execution

We will be mounting secrets to volume, so in secrets manifest yaml, we will not pass the key in encrypted format like we did previously otherwise enccrypted keys will not work.


mdkir filemount

We have created secret-filemount.yaml, and apply it

```
kubectl get secrets
NAME                TYPE     DATA   AGE
aws-creds-in-file   Opaque   1      41s
```

Next we will create a pod, which will have a volume mount with name: secret-volume , and we have passed mountPath along with subPath, and given readonly permission. Then we have passed the secret name

So after our pods get created, in env we will not be able to check the access and secret access keys. this is becasue they are mounted to .aws/credentials

```

kubectl get pods
NAME              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
secret-test-pod   1/1     Running   0          11s
ubuntu@ip-172-31-80-39:~/filemount$ kubectl exec -it secret-test-pod -- bash
root@secret-test-pod:/# aws s3 ls
2024-10-10 09:58:58 cloudadhanik.xyz
root@secret-test-pod:/# env

```

They will be located inside container on this path 

```
root@secret-test-pod:~/.aws# cat credentials 
[default]
aws_access_key_id = <access-key>
aws_secret_access_key = <secret-access-key>
root@secret-test-pod:~/.aws# 

```