
We will be creating two init containers in our yaml manifest, wait-for-service and perform-task, which will be carrying out a simple shell command. Once both the init containers task are performed, the main container shall be executed

'kubectl create deployment init-container-deployment --image busybox --replicas 3 --dry-run -o yaml`

We will add 2 init containers in spec section of above generated deployment.yaml

# How to create init containers

To specify an init container for a Pod, add the initContainers field into the Pod specification, as an array of container items (similar to the app containers field and its contents).

```

      initContainers:
      - name: wait-for-service
        image: busybox
        command: ['sh', '-c', "until nslookup myservice.default.svc.cluster.local; do echo waiting for myservice; sleep 2; done"]
      - name: perform-task
        image: busybox
        command: ['sh', '-c', 'echo "Init-container tasks completed" > /tasks/status.txt']
        volumeMounts:
        - name: tasks-volume
          mountPath: /tasks 
```

### `-c` Flag in Shell Commands
In the `command` sections, the `-c` flag stands for "command" in the `sh` shell. It tells `sh` to execute the following string as a command, which is helpful for chaining commands or running commands with special characters. 

For example:
```yaml
command: ['sh', '-c', "until nslookup myservice.default.svc.cluster.local; do echo waiting for myservice; sleep 2; done"]
```
This runs a loop that keeps trying to resolve the hostname `myservice.default.svc.cluster.local` and waits until it succeeds.


- In 1st task, nslookup command will be run, and until it finds service of type myservice, this container will not be completed.
- In 2nd task, we are writing an task completed to a status.txt file, and this file is stored under tasks. We have mounted tasks-volume to tasks dir using volumeMounts



### `volumeMounts`
`volumeMounts` define where specific volumes will be available within a container's file system. The `volumeMounts` section specifies two things:
- **name**: Refers to the volume name that is defined under `volumes` in the Pod spec (e.g., `tasks-volume`).
- **mountPath**: The directory path inside the container where this volume will be accessible.

For example:
```yaml
volumeMounts:
  - name: tasks-volume
    mountPath: /tasks
```
In this case, the `tasks-volume` will be available at `/tasks` inside both the `perform-task` init container and the main container.

### `volumes`
The `volumes` section is where volumes are defined for the Pod, specifying the storage type and characteristics. Volumes in Kubernetes can come from various sources, like `emptyDir`, ConfigMaps, Secrets, persistent storage, etc.

In your YAML:
```yaml
volumes:
  - name: tasks-volume
    emptyDir: {}
```
The `emptyDir` type is a temporary storage space shared across containers in a Pod. It starts empty and exists as long as the Pod is running. In this example, `tasks-volume` will hold temporary data accessible to both `perform-task` and the main container.

### Difference Between `volumeMounts` and `volumes`

- **`volumes`** is the global configuration for all storage volumes that the Pod may need. It specifies how and where Kubernetes should get or create the volume.
- **`volumeMounts`** is container-specific. It specifies which volumes from the `volumes` section will be mounted and where they will appear in each container.

Each container can choose which volume to mount and at which location within its file system. In this example, `tasks-volume` is defined once but mounted in both the init container `perform-task` and the main container.


# Note 

Init containers are exactly like regular containers, except:

- Init containers always run to completion.
- Each init container must complete successfully before the next one starts.

If a Pod's init container fails, the kubelet repeatedly restarts that init container until it succeeds. However, if the Pod has a restartPolicy of Never, and an init container fails during startup of that Pod, Kubernetes treats the overall Pod as failed.


# Practical

Once we have copied content of init.yaml, and run kubectl apply -f init.yaml, we see this

```

kubectl get pods -w
NAME                                        READY   STATUS     RESTARTS   AGE
init-container-deployment-dd767c7c4-frmwb   0/1     Init:0/2   0          8s
init-container-deployment-dd767c7c4-w7r2w   0/1     Init:0/2   0          8s
init-container-deployment-dd767c7c4-wmhtc   0/1     Init:0/2   0          8s

```

### This will reamin in 0/2. Why?

This is because we dont have a svc of type myservice

```
kubectl get svc
NAME         TYPE        CLUSTER-IP   EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
kubernetes   ClusterIP   100.64.0.1   <none>        443/TCP   82m
```

If we take a look at logs of our init container

`kubectl logs init-container-deployment-dd767c7c4-frmwb wait-for-service -f | grep -i service`
```
waiting for myservice
** server can't find myservice.default.svc.cluster.local: NXDOMAIN
** server can't find myservice.default.svc.cluster.local: NXDOMAIN
```
We can see the init container is trying to find service of myservice type

We will create a service of type myservice and do `watch kubectl get pods -o wide`

We will expose our deployment to a service -

`kubectl expose deployemnt init-container-deployment --name myservice --port 80`

```
 kubectl get svc
NAME         TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)   AGE
kubernetes   ClusterIP   100.64.0.1      <none>        443/TCP   91m
myservice    ClusterIP   100.65.101.33   <none>        80/TCP    5s

```

Now if we look at our pods

```
kubectl get pods -o wide
NAME                                        READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE   IP             NODE                  NOMINATED NODE   READINESS GATES
init-container-deployment-dd767c7c4-frmwb   1/1     Running   0          12m   100.96.1.40    i-066aa485bcfe89bba   <none>           <none>
init-container-deployment-dd767c7c4-w7r2w   1/1     Running   0          12m   100.96.2.220   i-0ccb9ec45d220f9a4   <none>           <none>
init-container-deployment-dd767c7c4-wmhtc   1/1     Running   0          12m   100.96.2.60    i-0ccb9ec45d220f9a4   <none>           <none>
ubuntu@ip-172-31-26-73:~$ 

```

We can check if it has written to status.txt

`kubectl exec -it init-container-deployment-dd767c7c4-frmwb -- sh`

```
/ # cd tasks/
/tasks # ls
status.txt
/tasks # cat status.txt 
Init-container tasks completed
/tasks # 

```

# Clean up

Delete the deployment you created

`kubectl delete deployment.apps init-container-deployment`
deployment.apps "init-container-deployment" deleted

Delete the service

`kubectl delete service myservice`
service "myservice" deleted
