

# RBAC in detail

As we know that RBAC is a method of regulating access to computer or network resources based on roles of individual users within our organisation. Now that we have wrote configuration file for both users, we will create a role for both and deploy the roles created.

RBAC authorization uses `rbac.authorization.k8s.io` API group to drive authorization decisions, allowing you to dynamically configure policies through KB API.


## API objects

The RBAC API declares four kinds of KB object: Role, ClusterRole, RoleBinding, and ClusterRoleBinding. These objects impose access restrictions.

## Creating Roles (mgmt server)

- An RBAC Role or ClusterRole contains rules that represent a set of permissions. Permissions are purely additive(there are no "deny" rules)

- Note - A Role always sets perissions within a particular ns, when you create a Role, you have to specify the ns it belongs in. ClusterRole, by contrast, is a non-namespaced resource. The resources have diff names(Role and clusterRole) because a KB object always has to be either namespaced or not not namespaced; it cant be both.

# yaml

Refer role.yaml

- We have configured 2 RBAC api object - user1-role & user2-role of kind Role
- For apiGroups, we can see the `kubectl api-resources` . Here we can see some resources for which namespaced = True, and for others it is False 

If we do `kubectl api-resources --namespaced=true`, we can see whatever resources are there in O/P, all these resources can be applied on ns level.

For `kubectl api-resources --namespaced=false`, we can see the resources which are on cluster level, not for a ns level.

### So the empty space in - `apiGroups: [""]` refers to all resources or which one?? It refers to core api group, i.e. Grants access to core resources (pods, nodes, services) that are part of the core group.

For resources, we have given pod deployment, replicasets etc, and verbs which can be used to retrieve/modify the resources.

```
rules:
- apiGroups: ["", "apps", "networking.k8s.io"]
  resources: ["pods", "deployments", "replicasets", "nodes", "ingress", "services"]
  verbs: ["get", "update", "list", "create", "delete"]
```

- We have created this role for both dev and prod ns.

- Go to mgmt server. We will do vi roles.yaml and `kubectl apply -f roles.yaml` and our both roles will be created.

- Run `kubectl get role -n development` we can see user1-role created. Similarly we can do for prod ns.

```
kubectl apply -f role.yaml
role.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/user1-role created
role.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/user2-role created

```

```
ubuntu@ip-172-31-90-79:/tmp$ kubectl get role -n production
NAME         CREATED AT
user2-role   2024-11-06T11:17:02Z
ubuntu@ip-172-31-90-79:/tmp$ 

```
## Creating Bindings (mgmt server)

- A role binding grants the permissions defined in a role to a user or set of users. It holds a list of subjects(users, groups or service accounts), and a reference to the role being granted. 

- A role binding grants permissions within a specific ns whereas a cluster Role binding grnatss access cluster-wide.


- Now that we have created user, keys, and role. Now for user1 and user2 to get attached to this role, we have to create Role bindings, which will help the role we have created to a user

- Refer rolebinding.yaml . We have given user1 access to development ns, and user2 access to production ns.
- For creating a rolebinding, one must have both User and role, then only rolebinding will attach user to role mentioned.

The `roleRef:` attribute guids KB to attach the role to the `subject`.

We will do `kubectl applyi -f rolebinding.yaml` , and both role bindings will be created.

```
kubectl apply -f rolebinding.yaml 
rolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/user1-RoleBinding created
rolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/user2-RoleBinding created

```

```
ubuntu@ip-172-31-90-79:/tmp$ kubectl get rolebinding -n development
NAME                ROLE              AGE
user1-RoleBinding   Role/user1-role   102s
ubuntu@ip-172-31-90-79:/tmp$ 

```
- To retrieve role bindings - `kubectl get rolebindings.rbac.authorization.k8s.io -n production`. Do same for development.

## Summary

Now we have created Users, Roles, and Role bindings




